                        Archimedes Chess

LOADING GAME

Either Double click on chess icon or Double click on chessfile 
icon. In the latter case the chess program will be entered with 
the file loaded. If the chess programme is already loaded 
double clicking on a saved file will load that file.

PLAYING THE GAME

  1) Moving a piece

     When it is your turn, indicated when the player name has a 
     yellow background, point to the piece and press SELECT. The 
     selected piece will then have a flashing hilite around it.
  
     Point to the place you want to put this piece and press 
     select.

     If the move is valid the move will be made.

  2) Undoing a move

     Press ADJUST at any time. This will work even when the 
     computer is thinking.

  3) Forcing the computers move

     Press SELECT while the computer is thinking.

  4) NewGame

     SELECT new game on the main menu

  NOTE the computer will continue to think when the main window 
  is closed and can be brought back by selecting the chess icon 
  on the icon bar.

STEPPING THROUGH THE GAME

     Select step through game from the main menu. This will open 
     a window which looks like the controls of a tape recorder.

     Selecting the Left or Rightmost icon makes the pieces move 
     through the game in that direction. This can be stopped at 
     any time by selecting the middle icon.

     Selecting one of the other two icons will move through the 
     game one move at a time.

     You can return to the game at any time by closing the 
     window.

     NOTE when stepping through the game the moves are not 
     hilited

EDITING THE BOARD

     Select edit board from the main menu. This will open a 
     window showing pieces that can be added to the board.
     
     To move a piece already on the board use the same method as 
     moving a piece in the game.

     To add a piece to the board SELECT the piece in the edit 
     window, if it is not already selected, point to the square 
     where you want the piece and press ADJUST. If the addition 
     of the piece would result in too many pieces of the kind 
     selected i.e. 9 pawns nothing will happen.

     To remove a piece from the board ensure that no pieces are 
     hilited in the edit window (if there is point to it and 
     press ADJUST),point to the piece you want removing and press 
     ADJUST. You cannot remove the KING from the board.

     To restart the Game close the edit window. The game will 
     restart with WHITE to play.

SAVING THE GAME

     Select Save Game from main menu and save in usual RISC OS 
     manner. 
     
OPTIONS

     Select Setup on the main menu. This allows the alteration of 
     the default options.

     These are:

         The time in minutes the computer has to make 60 moves.

         The maximum moves ahead the computer can think.

         Whether the computer is black.

         Whether the computer is white.

         Whether white is at the top of the screen.

         Whether you want the computer to beep when it makes a 
         move.

         Whether you want the hint to be displayed.

     These options are changed for the duration of the game by 
     selecting <ok> and can become the default (start up) 
     settings by selecting <SAVE> The settings determining who is 
     playing what colour are also saved with a saved file and 
     will be reinstated when a file is loaded.

PRINTING THE GAME

     A listing of the moves so far can be made either by 
     selecting print on the main menu or saving the file to a 
     printer driver icon.

     This Information can also be seen by saving to !Edit
